plugins/community-plugins/mq2events.md, before:

# MQ2Events

## Description

## Commands

* _'/event \[_ load\*&lt;/span&gt; \|

  _deletename_\| _settriggernametrigger text_\|

  _setcommandnamecommand text_\| \*list'' \]

### Variables

```text
EventArg1 these are set acording to last event triggered and correspond to #1# .. #9#
EventArg2 these are not cleared so you can have one event use #9# and once set it will stay set until another #9# is encountered.
EventArg3
EventArg4
EventArg5
EventArg6
EventArg7
EventArg8
EventArg9
```

### INI file

MQ2Events\_CharacterName.ini

Format:

```text
[eventname]
trigger=trigger text
command=command to execute when triggered
```

## Examples

### INI Entries

```text
[enrage]
trigger=|${Target.DisplayName}| has become ENRAGED#2#
command=/attack off

[relaytell]
trigger=#1# tells you, #2#
command=/tell relaytargetname ${EventArg1} told me, '${EventArg2.Mid[2,${Math.Calc[${EventArg2.Length}-2]}]}'

[group]
trigger=#1#To join the group, click on the 'FOLLOW' option, or 'DISBAND' to cancel.#2#
command=/timed ${Math.Calc[3+${Math.Rand[4]}].Int}s /keypress ctrl+i

[raid]
trigger=#1#To join the raid click the accept button in the raid window or type /raidaccept.#2#
command=/timed ${Math.Calc[3+${Math.Rand[4]}].Int}s /raidaccept
```

Commit message:

Standardization of formatting on Plugin pages and other things. (#64)
* Update autosize documentation
* Update links to plugin pages to work properly
* Update advpath documentation to display correctly
* Replaced curly bracket with square bracket
* Further modifications to layout of autosize page
* Added mqsettings image for AutoSize, cleaned up AutoSize page
* Removed some code blocks to improve display
* Standardized mq2aapurachase
* Standardized mq2advpath
* Standardized mq2autoforage
* Standardized mq2autogroup
* Standardized mq2autoskills
* Standardized mq2bandolier
* Standardized mq2cast
* Removed file, no longer used.
* Removed MQ2Timer - no longer used
* Removed mq2cecho - no longer used
* Removed mq2clip and mq2 dps - no longer used
* Removed - No Longer Used
* Standardized mq2chatevents
* Standardized mq2cursor
* Standardized mq2debuffs
* Standardize mq2dpsadv
* Standardize mq2events
* Standardize mq2exchange
* Standardize mq2fakelink
* Standardize mq2feedme
* Standardize mq2gmcheck
* Standardize mq2hudmove
* Standardize mq2linkdb
* Standardize mq2medley
* Modified formatting per brainiac's request
* Changed information about where MacroQuest.ini is stored
* Added VSCode and NeoVim syntax highlighting
* Removed dead link and changed text to indicate mq works on some emu servers
* Added examples to the sections of the ini file
* Added download links as well as links to syntax files for vscode and nvim
* Added image of mqsettings window for framelimiter
* Cleanup and standardization
* fixed spelling of TODO
* Cleanup, standardization, and added more information.
* Added additional information about usage and datatype
* Added link to C++ Video Tutorial

Dang kids don't know how to read anymore.

* Added information regarding Lua scripts
* added framelimiter datatype and cachedbuffs command
* Added Lua
* Added Cachedbuffs command
* Added datatype for framelimiter
* Fixed forums links

plugins/community-plugins/mq2events.md, after:

# MQ2Events

## Description

**MQ2Events** allows you to configure a reaction to any text-based event. For example, if you want to /cry when the text "has become ENRAGED" appears, you're in the right place.

## Commands

`/event [option] [<name> <trigger text|command text>]` - Adds, lists, deletes, and controls all events.<br>
`/eventdebug [on|off]` - Turns event debugging on or off.<br>

### Variables

```text
EventArg1 these are set acording to last event triggered and correspond to #1# .. #9#
EventArg2 these are not cleared so you can have one event use #9# and once set it will stay set until another #9# is encountered.
EventArg3
EventArg4
EventArg5
EventArg6
EventArg7
EventArg8
EventArg9
```

### INI file

MQ2Events\_CharacterName.ini

Format:

```text
[eventname]
trigger=trigger text
command=command to execute when triggered
```

## Examples

### INI Entries

```text
[enrage]
trigger=|${Target.DisplayName}| has become ENRAGED#2#
command=/attack off

[relaytell]
trigger=#1# tells you, #2#
command=/tell relaytargetname ${EventArg1} told me, '${EventArg2.Mid[2,${Math.Calc[${EventArg2.Length}-2]}]}'

[group]
trigger=#1#To join the group, click on the 'FOLLOW' option, or 'DISBAND' to cancel.#2#
command=/timed ${Math.Calc[3+${Math.Rand[4]}].Int}s /keypress ctrl+i

[raid]
trigger=#1#To join the raid click the accept button in the raid window or type /raidaccept.#2#
command=/timed ${Math.Calc[3+${Math.Rand[4]}].Int}s /raidaccept
```
