plugins/community-plugins/mq2gmcheck.md, before:

# MQ2GMCheck

## Description

**MQ2GMCheck** Created by Bushdaka

Check to see if a GM is in the zone. This is not fool proof. It is absolutely true that a GM could be right in front of you and you'd never know it. This plugin will simply find those who are in the zone and not gm-invis, or who just came into the zone and were not gm-invised at the time. If a GM comes into the zone already gm-invised, we will not know about that.

You can find the latest version of MQ2GMCheck [here](https://macroquest.org/phpBB3/viewtopic.php?f=50&t=11140&hilit=MQ2GMCheck).

## Commands

`/gmcheck on|off - enable/disable scanning for GMs`  
`/gmcheck char on|off - toggle chat channel alert`  
`/gmcheck chattimer X - set frequency of chant channel alert, default=15s`  
`/gmcheck popup on|off - toggle popup alert`  
`/gmcheck popuptimer X - set frequency of popup alert, default is 30s`  
`/gmcheck audio on|off - toggle audio alert`  
`/gmcheck audiotimer X - set frequency of audio alert, default is 30s`  
`/gmcheck list - list all known GMs currently in zone`  
`/gmcheck reset - reset list of known GMs in zone`  
`/gmcheck history - complete history dump`  
`/gmcheck zone - history of GMs in this zone`  
`/gmcheck server - history of GMs on this server`  
`/gmcheck servers - history of GMs on all servers`  
`/gmcheck timer X - set scan delay to X seconds, default is 2s`  
`/gmcheck help - show the available commands`

## Datatype

`${GMCheck} returns TRUE, FALSE, or DISABLED.`  
`${GMCheck.Status} returns TRUE, FALSE, or DISABLED.`  
`${GMCheck.Count} returns the number of GMs known in this zone.`

audio - put an entry for GMCHECK in the MQ2Sound.ini

Commit message:

Standardization of formatting on Plugin pages and other things. (#64)
* Update autosize documentation
* Update links to plugin pages to work properly
* Update advpath documentation to display correctly
* Replaced curly bracket with square bracket
* Further modifications to layout of autosize page
* Added mqsettings image for AutoSize, cleaned up AutoSize page
* Removed some code blocks to improve display
* Standardized mq2aapurachase
* Standardized mq2advpath
* Standardized mq2autoforage
* Standardized mq2autogroup
* Standardized mq2autoskills
* Standardized mq2bandolier
* Standardized mq2cast
* Removed file, no longer used.
* Removed MQ2Timer - no longer used
* Removed mq2cecho - no longer used
* Removed mq2clip and mq2 dps - no longer used
* Removed - No Longer Used
* Standardized mq2chatevents
* Standardized mq2cursor
* Standardized mq2debuffs
* Standardize mq2dpsadv
* Standardize mq2events
* Standardize mq2exchange
* Standardize mq2fakelink
* Standardize mq2feedme
* Standardize mq2gmcheck
* Standardize mq2hudmove
* Standardize mq2linkdb
* Standardize mq2medley
* Modified formatting per brainiac's request
* Changed information about where MacroQuest.ini is stored
* Added VSCode and NeoVim syntax highlighting
* Removed dead link and changed text to indicate mq works on some emu servers
* Added examples to the sections of the ini file
* Added download links as well as links to syntax files for vscode and nvim
* Added image of mqsettings window for framelimiter
* Cleanup and standardization
* fixed spelling of TODO
* Cleanup, standardization, and added more information.
* Added additional information about usage and datatype
* Added link to C++ Video Tutorial

Dang kids don't know how to read anymore.

* Added information regarding Lua scripts
* added framelimiter datatype and cachedbuffs command
* Added Lua
* Added Cachedbuffs command
* Added datatype for framelimiter
* Fixed forums links

plugins/community-plugins/mq2gmcheck.md, after:

# MQ2GMCheck

## Description

**MQ2GMCheck** Created by Bushdaka

Check to see if a GM is in the zone. This is not fool proof. It is absolutely true that a GM could be right in front of you and you'd never know it. This plugin will simply find those who are in the zone and not gm-invis, or who just came into the zone and were not gm-invised at the time. If a GM comes into the zone already gm-invised, we will not know about that.

You can find the latest version of MQ2GMCheck [here](https://macroquest2.com/phpBB3/viewtopic.php?f=50&t=11140&hilit=MQ2GMCheck).

## Commands

`/gmcheck on|off` - enable/disable scanning for GMs<br>
`/gmcheck char on|off` - toggle chat channel alert<br>
`/gmcheck chattimer X` - set frequency of chant channel alert, default=15s<br>
`/gmcheck popup on|off` - toggle popup alert<br>
`/gmcheck popuptimer X` - set frequency of popup alert, default is 30s<br>
`/gmcheck audio on|off` - toggle audio alert<br>
`/gmcheck audiotimer X` - set frequency of audio alert, default is 30s<br>
`/gmcheck list` - list all known GMs currently in zone<br>
`/gmcheck reset` - reset list of known GMs in zone<br>
`/gmcheck history` - complete history dump<br>
`/gmcheck zone` - history of GMs in this zone<br>
`/gmcheck server` - history of GMs on this server<br>
`/gmcheck servers` - history of GMs on all servers<br>
`/gmcheck timer X` - set scan delay to X seconds, default is 2s<br>
`/gmcheck help` - show the available commands<br>

## Top-Level Object: ${GMCheck}


| **Type**                                              | **Member Name**  | **Description**                                            |
| :---------------------------------------------------- | :--------------- | :--------------------------------------------------------- |
| [_string_](../../reference/data-types/datatype-string.md) | **${GMCheck}** | returns TRUE, FALSE, or DISABLED. |
| [_string_](../../reference/data-types/datatype-string.md) | **Status** | returns TRUE, FALSE, or DISABLED. |
| [_int_](../../reference/data-types/datatype-int.md) | **Count** | returns the number of GMs known in this zone. |

audio - put an entry for GMCHECK in the MQ2Sound.ini
