## Description

This plugin adds an additional window to your UI which displays ALL information generated by MQ2.

**Note:** Any information displayed or typed in this window will NOT go into your character log. It is invisible to
EverQuest (and invisible to /petitions and /reports too).

This plugin is setup by default and very much recommended. You can however use the [MQ2Chat](mq2chat.md) plugin
to force MQ2 information to the main EQ chat window if you wish to ignore this recommendation.

## Commands

-   **<span style="color:red">/style</span> <span style="color:blue">\[!\]0xN</span>**

  
Set the style bit corresponding to 0xN or unset it if ! is supplied. See EQ documentation for further details about
WindowStyle.

-   **<span style="color:red">/mqfont</span> <span style="color:blue">#</span>**

  
Sets the font size on this window. **Note:** This is not the same as the EQ command /chatfontsize; /mqfont reduces the
spacing between the lines of text within the window.

-   **<span style="color:red">/mqmin<span>**

  
Toggle the minimization of MQ2ChatWnd

-   **<span style="color:red">/mqclear</span>**

  
Clears the chat buffer of MQ2ChatWnd

-   **<span style="color:red">/mqchat reset</span>**

  
Resets the location and options for the MQ2 Chat window

## Configuration

MQ2ChatWnd stores a configuration file to the root MQ2 folder, *MQ2ChatWnd.ini*. This file stores the chat window
position, color, title, and other settings for every character you create, by default. There are new user-configurable
options that have been added:

    [Settings]
    AutoScroll=on
    NoCharSelect=off
    SaveByChar=on 

-   **AutoScroll**
      
    By default set to *on*, this automatically scrolls to the bottom of the chat window every time a new text line is
    displayed. If you set this option to *off*, the chat window will retain your current slider position rather than
    automatically scroll to the bottom.
-   **NoCharSelect**
      
    By default set to *off*, this displays the chat window at the character select screen. If you set this option to
    *on*, the chat window will only display when you have entered or re-entered the world.
-   **SaveByChar**
      
    By default set to *on*, this creates a new INI entry for every character that you log in so that each character uses
    its own window position and settings. If you set this option to *off*, a single \[Default\] section will be created
    and all characters will use the same window position and settings.

## Key Binding

MQ2 creates a key binding for MQ2ChatWnd by default (the . key). This entry is created in a similar manner to the /bind
command, and will create an entry in your [MacroQuest.ini](../macroquest.ini.md) file under the \[Key Binds\]
section. The default entry is given the name *MQ2CHAT_Nrm*, and may be changed by the user prior to starting MQ2, or
using the /bind command.

## See Also

-   [Plugins](../documentation/macroquest2-plugins.md)
-   [MQ2Chat](mq2chat.md)
-   [/bind](../commands/bind.md)
-   [/keypress](../commands/keypress.md)
-   [/mqfont](../commands/mqfont.md)
-   [/mqmin](../commands/mqmin.md)
-   [/mqclear](../commands/mqclear.md)


