# MQ2AutoLogin

## Credits

Originally by [ieatacid](https://macroquest2.com/phpBB3/viewtopic.php?f=50&t=16427)

## Description

AutoLogin is a plugin that automatically logs in your characters. It can also switch characters, servers and login new accounts via commandline.

There are three typical ways to login, 

1. MQ2Login via tray icon gui right click (recommended)
2. AutoLogin via the EverQuest launcher or a windows shortcut with `-patchme`  
3. Autologin via ISBoxer or WinEQ using station name with `-patchme`

## 1. MQ2Login via tray icon

Right click on your MacroQuest tray icon

Select Profiles-&gt;Create New.

You'll be asked to enter nine fields:

1. Profile Set: (This creates "groups" of profiles, enter any custom name) 
2. EQ Path: (Path to eqgame.exe)
3. Login: (EverQuest login)
4. Password:  (EverQuest password)
5. Server: (Server short name)
6. Character Name: 
7. Class: (Optional)
8. Level: (Optional)
9. Hotkey: (Assign a key or combination of keys to bring this character's window to the front)

Upon clicking "Save", your profile will be encrypted and saved in mq2autologin.ini

## 2. AutoLogin via a windows shortcut with -patchme

Configure the ini file \(named: MQ2AutoLogin.ini\) with your account information in plaintext (this presents a security issue, please be careful with this file)

**Sample INI**
```ini⏎
[Settings]
KickActiveCharacter=1
InstantCamp=0
KickActiveTrader=1
UseStationNamesInsteadOfSessions=0

[Session1]
StationName=StationNameforSession
Password=PasswordforSession
Server=ServerforSession
Character=Name

[Session2]
StationName=StationNameforSession
Password=PasswordforSession
Server=ServerforSession
Character=Name
```

## 3. Autologin via ISBoxer or WinEQ using station name with -patchme

Alternatively, you can use station names rather than sessions \(handy if you use ISBoxer or WinEQ2 profiles\). 

**Sample INI**
```ini⏎
[Settings]
UseMQ2Login=0
KickActiveCharacter=1
InstantCamp=0
KickActiveTrader=1
UseStationNamesInsteadOfSessions=1

[StationName1]`  
Password=PasswordforThisLoginName
Server=ServerforThisLoginName
Character=CharacterforThisLoginName

[StationName2]
Password=PasswordforThisLoginName
Server=ServerforThisLoginName
Character=CharacterforThisLoginName
```

## Commands

`/switchserver <server short name> <character name>`

Will log out your current character and log in the specified server/character on the same account. 

`/switchchar <name>`

Will log out your current character and log in the specified character on the same account/server. 

`/loginchar [server:character|profile_server:character|server^login^character^password|server^login^password]`

Will open a new EverQuest instance and login the specified character. Example: `/loginchar vox:bobby`

`/relog [#s|#m]`

Will log character out, and then log back in after specified time. Default time is in seconds. Example: `/relog 5m`

## INI configuration values

MQ2AutoLogin has 3 types of sections

1. The global settings under [Settings]
2. The [Profiles] section and encrypted character sections, which are auto-generated by MQ2Login and not for users to edit directly.
3. Optional sections for alternate login methods, under either [Session#] or [LoginName]

**Section = \[Settings\]**
```ini⏎
[Settings]
;The following settings are global. Settings changed for specific characters will override them.
NotifyOnServerUp=1
;0 is off, 1 is beep, 2 is email via MQ2Gmail
KickActiveCharacter=1
;0 is off, 1 is on. Will attempt to boot an active player to log in.
EndAfterCharSelect=1
;0 is off, 1 is on.
CharSelectDelay=3
;seconds to wait at the character select screen. Default is 3
ConnectRetries=0
;How many attempts to connect after a failure
UseMQ2Login=1
;Encrypts your login information in MQ2AutoLogin.ini. NOTE: Changing your PCs hardware may make this unreadable. Be sure to use the export/import feature if moving or upgrading your PC.
UseStationNamesInsteadOfSessions=0
;Stores your login and pass in plaintext in MQ2AutoLogin.ini, but is compatible with ISBoxer/WinEQ.
```
If you're using `UseMQ2Login=1`, there will be additional sections such as `[Profiles]` and profile names. These should be left alone, as their settings are best changed via the GUI.

**Section = \[Session\#\] or \[LoginName\]**

If you prefer to use station names or sessions to log in, make sure your [Settings] reflect this preference, and then add session or station name sections with this format:
```ini⏎
[Session1]
StationName=ChangeMe
Password=ChangeMe
Server=ChangeMe
Character=ChangeMe

[Session2]
StationName=ChangeMe
Password=ChangeMe
Server=ChangeMe
Character=ChangeMe

[YourStationName]
Password=ChangeMe
Server=ChangeMe
Character=ChangeMe
```

**List of server short names**

    antonius
    bertox
    bristle
    cazic
    drinal
    erollisi
    firiona
    luclin
    phinigel
    povar
    ragefire
    rathe
    rizlona
    tunare
    vox
    xegony
    zek
    test
    beta

## MQ2Login Profiles GUI

\(Right click on the MacroQuest tray icon\)

`Check marks:`

A checked character will be loaded when clicking "Profile->Load All". Right-clicking a character's name will toggle the checkmark on or off.

`Loading individual accounts:`

Left click on a character name and if checked, it will login and load MacroQuest. Left-clicking a loaded character will unload MacroQuest for that character.

`Batch Files and hotkeys:`

If you currently use batch files or hotkeys or whatever, those should still be usable if you don't want to click the menu. Example: \(this example assumes you HAVE profiles created with "Create New..." in mq2autologin.ini\) Batch file can launch your accounts by sending the server\_charname to the eqgame client like this:  patchme /login:drinal\_eqmule And that's really all there is to it... You would of course change the server and Charname to your server and your char \(drinal and eqmule\)

`Encryption:`

If you make profiles via the tray icon GUI, they are encrypted in your MQ2AutoLogin.ini. Moving your file to another computer or changing computer hardware will invalidate these logins, so please use import/export for backup and moving purposes.

`Import/Export profiles`

This helps export and import login profiles, which are otherwise hard to decrypt. 

`Launch Clean`

Launch single sessions without logging in.


## See Also

* [Plugins](../../documentation/macroquest2-plugins.md)

