# MQ2ChatWnd

## Description

This plugin adds an additional window to your UI which displays ALL information generated by MQ2.

**Note:** Any information displayed or typed in this window will NOT go into your character log. It is invisible to EverQuest \(and invisible to /petitions and /reports too\).

This plugin is setup by default and very much recommended. You can however use the [MQ2Chat](mq2chat.md) plugin to force MQ2 information to the main EQ chat window if you wish to ignore this recommendation.

## Commands

* **/style \[!\]0xN**

Set the style bit corresponding to 0xN or unset it if ! is supplied. See EQ documentation for further details about WindowStyle.

* **/mqfont \#**

Sets the font size on this window. **Note:** This is not the same as the EQ command /chatfontsize; /mqfont reduces the spacing between the lines of text within the window.

* **/mqmin**

Toggle the minimization of MQ2ChatWnd

* **/mqclear**

Clears the chat buffer of MQ2ChatWnd

* **/mqchat reset**

Resets the location and options for the MQ2 Chat window

## Configuration

MQ2ChatWnd stores a configuration file to the root MQ2 folder, _MQ2ChatWnd.ini_. This file stores the chat window position, color, title, and other settings for every character you create, by default. There are new user-configurable options that have been added:

```text
[Settings]
AutoScroll=on
NoCharSelect=off
SaveByChar=on
```

* **AutoScroll**

  By default set to _on_, this automatically scrolls to the bottom of the chat window every time a new text line is displayed. If you set this option to _off_, the chat window will retain your current slider position rather than automatically scroll to the bottom.

* **NoCharSelect**

  By default set to _off_, this displays the chat window at the character select screen. If you set this option to _on_, the chat window will only display when you have entered or re-entered the world.

* **SaveByChar**

  By default set to _on_, this creates a new INI entry for every character that you log in so that each character uses its own window position and settings. If you set this option to _off_, a single \[Default\] section will be created and all characters will use the same window position and settings.

## Key Binding

MQ2 creates a key binding for MQ2ChatWnd by default \(the . key\). This entry is created in a similar manner to the /bind command, and will create an entry in your [MacroQuest.ini](../../documentation/macroquest.ini.md) file under the \[Key Binds\] section. The default entry is given the name _MQ2CHAT\_Nrm_, and may be changed by the user prior to starting MQ2, or using the /bind command.

## See Also

* [Plugins](../../documentation/macroquest2-plugins.md)
* [MQ2Chat](mq2chat.md)
* [/bind](../../commands/slash-commands/bind.md)
* [/keypress](../../commands/slash-commands/keypress.md)
* [/mqfont](../../commands/slash-commands/mqfont.md)
* [/mqmin](../../commands/slash-commands/mqmin.md)
* [/mqclear](../../commands/slash-commands/mqclear.md)

